Previously
on "Criminal Minds"...
It would be nice
if we saw each other
more than once
every 3 or 4 years.
So, give me the updates.
Anybody serious
in your life?
No, there isn't.
I think she's putting
some feelers out
to see if that old spark
is still there.
Is it?
I'm crazy, right?
We don't always get second
chances in life, Rossi.
Hey, what's
going on with you?
Last year I was diagnosed
with ALS,
Lou Gehrig's disease.
It won't be long now.
I came to ask you,
when it's time,
will you help me end my life?
Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
Cool night,
still water,
just the way
the fish like it.
Mm-hmm.
You could at least
act like you're having fun.
Mom told me never to lie.
No one likes a smart-ass.
You haven't caught
anything either.
Can we go in now?
Not until
we hook our dinner.
I thought you were
drinking yours tonight.
What did you say?
You got a real attitude
problem, you know that?
Take your shirt off.
Sorry.
Sir, it won't happen again.
Take your shirt off.
You're never gonna grow up
to be a man
if you don't learn respect.
Uhh! Uhh!
No wonder your mother left.
She couldn't face
having a worthless...
Arrogant...
Uhh!
Bastard for a son.
Aah! Aah!
Aah!
Nick. Nick! Wake up.
We saw something going on
across the lake,
so we left to check it out.
What do you mean,
you guys left?
Listen, bro,
we tried to wake you.
Dude, you gotta
get over here.
How?
You took the canoes.
There are police everywhere.
They found a body
in the lake.
Look across.
Got another one.
Can you give me a hand?
Hold it.
They've--
there's another body.
I can't see anything.
Come back and get me.
Ok. Sam is heading
your way now.
She'll be there
in a couple of minutes.
Who's that with you?
What? No one.
I'm alone.
Nick, look out!
Nick! Nick, are you there?
Nick!
Nick! What the hell
is going on?!
I so don't miss that face.
No matter how many cases
we solve, there's always more.
Insert Dr. Reid's statistic
about active serial killers
at any given time here.
Reid?
Spencer...
There's something wrong.
Why do you say that?
He's been reading
the same page
for 16 minutes
and 24 seconds.
Maybe it's a really
good article.
It's never taken him longer
than 11 minutes,
17 seconds to turn a page.
You time how long it...
What's your theory?
I'm extrapolating
probabilities as we speak.
Oh, hey. Rossi, you think
you could help me
with a consult for Wildwood PD?
Uh, sure.
Now, that I noticed.
Is something going on?
How did it go
the other night?
What happened
You Ok?
Well, why wouldn't I be?
You seem distracted.
I'm considering a purchase.
Come on, now, Rossi,
you know we're not buying that.
What's really going on?
Look, it was
a late night with Ringo
and not enough coffee.
I mean, the guy's
a world-class drummer,
but don't think I didn't
wipe the floor with him
in rock band.
All right, what do you think?
He could be
telling the truth.
I only played him
to the easy level.
I can't tell.
And you never will.
Let's get started.
Ok, this is Ridge Canyon Lake
in California's Angeles
National Forest.
It's a popular destination
for water sport enthusiasts.
Unfortunately, some campers
have discovered
someone has chosen murder
as their sport of choice.
3 victims, all male,
all found early this morning.
He used an underwater
disposal site?
Mm-hmm. He weighed them down
with rocks and then he hid
their bodies underneath shrubbery
around the lake's edge.
That's pretty risky,
keeping a graveyard
at a popular lake.
This guy is showing
confidence early.
Well, we should run priors
in the area.
This might not be
his first party.
All 3 victims were reported
missing last week,
and each of the bodies
was discovered
more than 30 miles from
where they went missing.
Any indication
of sexual assault?
No external signs, but time
in the water might have
destroyed evidence.
Autopsies are being
conducted now.
And I'm gonna
make matters worse.
This is Nick Skirvin and he was
abducted early this morning.
Witness reports
indicate a blitz attack.
His friends
were on the water
and saw a figure
strike Nick from behind
just before
they lost contact.
Could they give
a description?
Probably white,
definitely male.
Nothing more specific.
They said the unsub
had dragged Nick into the woods
by the time they reached the shore.
Fast and efficient,
and he is unafraid
of a heavy police presence.
If he's dumping the bodies
in one location,
it's a good bet the area
means something to him.
He probably lives
in or near the forest.
Unfortunately,
Angeles National Forest
1,016 square miles
of terrain,
ranging in elevation
from 1,200 to 10,064 feet.
Which means that if the unsub
is familiar with the area,
Nick Skirvin
could be anywhere.
No!
♪ Criminal Minds 7x06 ♪
Epilogue
Original Air Date on November 2, 2011.
== sync, corrected by elderman ==
That's not why mom left.
What did you say?
I said, that's not why
mom left.
Is that right?
Huh. She said 'cause
your rod was broken.
And this whole time,
I thought she was
talking about fishing!
Uhh!
"To die
is poignantly bitter,
"but the idea
of having to die
without having lived
is unbearable."
Erich Fromm.
With no apparent evidence
of physical violence
or sexual assault,
we could be looking at an unsub
who gets off
on the torture of drowning.
So what's the significance
of the water burial?
Is he visiting the dump sites
to relive his crimes,
or is he using it
as a forensic countermeasure?
It could be both.
If the dump site's doubling
as his trophy collection,
he won't be happy
it's been disturbed.
He'll want to make
a new one quickly.
Uh, guys, I'm afraid
that's just happened.
Nick Skirvin's body
has been recovered,
only it wasn't found
in Ridge Canyon,
it was found in Lake Banter,
which is 20 miles away.
Visual aid to follow.
And postscript,
you do not want to know
how many hits you get if you
Google this forest plus murder.
To say it should be called the
Angeles National unsub dump site
is an understatement.
How was the body
recovered so quickly?
It wasn't way down.
Nick's body was just found
at the edge of the lake
by some campers.
Garcia, start compiling
a list of missing persons
and crimes in the area.
Faster than a Hotch rocket.
So the unsub knew that his
burial site had been compromised,
and he adapted by venturing
outside his comfort zone.
And he changed
his victimology.
Look at Nick Skirvin compared to
the other 3 victims.
They were all dark-haired,
well-built men,
but Nick
is an average blond.
He could be
an impulsive kill,
not thought out
like the others.
Then why not submerge
the body?
Allowing it to be uncovered
so soon seems counterintuitive
to the self-preservation
instincts he's displayed so far.
The disturbance of
his old disposal site
could have thrown him
off his game.
Or he's trying
to shake us.
By using another lake,
he just doubled the size
of his killing field.
And our search area.
This is even more isolated
than Ridge Canyon.
He's gotta be local.
Hey, did your team
come this way?
All right, it looks like
he dragged Nick up through here.
That path comes from
the direction of the road.
There's no waterway
connecting the two lakes.
It's 44 miles
from the abduction site.
With the forest
smack in between.
A truck or a camper
would conceal his victims.
If he's dragging
his victims,
he's probably too weak
to carry them.
He might have switched
to a smaller target
to help navigate
his terrain.
He also he didn't weigh
this body down.
Maybe he can't complete his ritual
without the proper surrogate.
If that's the case,
then killing Nick
didn't get the unsub
his release.
He's already looking
for his next victim.
Ok. So, we all need
life vests.
We can get them
at the rental shack.
Whoo.
I think it's right up here.
We were on the two-way...
And then he was gone.
I never should have
left him.
You said you saw a man
at the campsite?
We were too far away
to help.
I paddled as hard
as I could, but...
Phinny.
This wasn't your fault.
Try telling that
to my parents.
You find the son of a bitch
who killed my brother.
We will. But first
I need to know,
is it possible that Nick
met someone at the lake
that would have followed him?
We hung out with a lot
of people last night.
There was a party
on the beach.
Did Nick make
any new friends?
Nick always makes friends.
Do you remember
if anyone stuck out,
looked like
they didn't belong?
Ok, thank you, ma'am.
Bye.
Anything?
Unsub blends in
with a younger crowd.
I'd say we're looking at mid-20s
to early 30s. You?
Well, he's methodical.
Social, too. He's been able
to isolate all of his victims.
The mother of Jake Shepherd,
our first victim,
said there were several members
of their church at the lake that day.
But Jake was the only one
with brown hair.
He matched the age preference
of the unsub.
Nick's brother Phinny's
a brunette,
and he's
a lot like these guys.
Why not go after him?
I don't know.
He chose Nick Skirvin
for a reason.
We need to figure out why.
Aah! Ha ha ha!
Damn it.
I'm out of gas!
All the victims
were drowned,
but the first victim,
Jake Shepherd, was asphyxiated
before being submerged.
Jake was the biggest. The unsub
may have had to strangle him
to render him unconscious
for the drowning.
He wasn't just unconscious.
There was pretty intense
damage to the trachea.
He was dead before
going in the water.
But with Nick, he used a blow to
the head to incapacitate him,
so this unsub wants his victims alive
when he drowns them.
This is
the interesting part.
In all 4 victims,
evidence of broken ribs
and damage to the sternum
indicate severe chest compression,
yet there are no signs
of external trauma.
So somebody attempted
to perform CPR on these victims?
And was successful.
Inflammation to the lungs
indicates matter expulsion
prior to brain death.
He kills them, then
resuscitates them. Why?
We've seen hero complexes
before. Rodney Alcala killed
and resuscitated his victims.
These unsubs get off
on the power of bringing
people back from the dead.
Well, he's not
a very good hero, is he?
His victims didn't survive.
Dr. carroll,
is it possible to tell
if any of these victims were
resuscitated more than once?
The indicator is
the inflammation of the lungs,
combined with broken ribs.
Severe inflammation could
theoretically point toward
multiple resuscitations.
Ok, given that theory,
how many of the 4?
All but the first victim,
Jake Shepherd.
The guy might have tried, but
with the damage to Jake's throat,
he wouldn't have been able to
expel the water from his lungs.
You need a hand?
Yeah.
Hi, I'm--I'm Chase.
Here.
Lacey.
Here, let me help you
with that.
I thought I was never
gonna get this thing out.
The damn thing
ran out of gas.
Oh, no worries. I'll give you
a lift back to the dock.
I should probably
stay with the jet ski.
Are you kidding?
Didn't you hear what
happened this morning?
The bodies?
Yeah, it's crazy, right?
Who knows where that guy is?
Better that thing
be on its own than you.
You're right.
It looks like we're definitely
looking at a sadist.
Killing them once
isn't enough.
He has to resuscitate
his victims
until he can't
bring them back again.
So why the change from choking
to multiple drowning?
With the damage to Jake's
throat, the unsub
wasn't able to successfully
resuscitate him.
Resuscitating them makes him
feel more powerful.
Which means he has no power
in his everyday life.
But the change in victimology
is interesting.
Nick Skirvin
was the smallest,
but he had the most
defensive wounds on his body.
He fought back the most.
Maybe the unsub was injured
in one of the attacks.
He's targeting easier prey
to complete his end game.
Excuse me.
There's something else.
The M.E. tested diatom levels
in the bodies
and it turns out the unsub
drowns his victims
at different locations
every time, not just where
he abducts them or where
the bodies are later discovered.
Well, that's pretty risky,
considering the community's
on full alert.
This guy's intelligent,
resourceful, and criminally
sophisticated.
Why is transporting
the bodies so important to him?
Come on, Lacey, please?
Wake up.
Wake up!
Come on!
Wake up! Wake up!
Chase, wake up!
Damn it, wake up!
Stop.
He killed a woman this time.
This guy's all over the map.
Diatom readings indicate he did
move the body after he drowned her.
Postmortem wounds--overkill
consistent with rage.
Is he unraveling because we took
away his underwater graveyard?
She lasted longer
in the fight than Nick Skirvin.
This feels desperate.
Take a look at this.
There was blood on the body that
didn't match type to the victim.
It shows a severely low
white blood cell count.
I'm running tests
to be more conclusive.
If this unsub is sick
and getting weak,
it would explain why he's no
longer weighing his victims down.
The only consistency
to his M.O.
is the drowning
and resuscitation.
That's what's most
important to him.
If that's the case, I'd say
he isn't too happy right now.
Why is that?
There's bruising
consistent with CPR,
but no inflammation
of the lungs,
no signs of expulsion.
She wasn't successfully
revived.
The unsub, or unknown
subject we're looking for
is a white male
in his mid- to late 20s.
He dumped Nick Skirvin's
body in Banter Lake
and then was compelled
to circle back to Ridge Canyon.
We believe, therefore,
that he's local to the area.
This unsub is a sadist
with a God complex.
He gets off by killing
his victims over and over again.
But it's vital that he's able to
bring them back from the dead.
He went from choking and carrying
fit men to their watery graves
to drowning and dumping
smaller victims unceremoniously.
Diatom levels indicate that
he has now
stopped moving
his victims altogether.
I'm sorry, diatom levels?
Diatoms are algae in water
that help us pinpoint time
and location of drowning.
Because of the changes
to his behavior,
we believe he's most likely
been injured or sick.
He's definitely
experienced in CPR.
We need to look
at doctors, lifeguards,
anyone with training
in resuscitation.
You should put younger cops
on the lakes undercover,
see if they
can lure him out.
The smaller, less
imposing ones you can find,
the better.
We could grab a couple guys
from the Academy.
Perfect.
But move quickly.
He's accelerated
his attack schedule.
He won't wait long
to strike again.
Damn it. Where's the spare?
I think that is the spare.
Of course there's no reception.
There was a gas station,
about a mile back.
You want me to hoof it,
see if they have any tires?
No, you stay with the car.
The walk will calm me down.
Mom.
What?
Are you kidding me?
I think after this
I deserve one.
And I deserve a mother
who lives to see me graduate.
You're a good son.
No matter what
anyone else might say.
Funny.
I'll be back
within an hour.
No getting a pack
at the station either.
Love you.
I take it that wasn't Ringo
inviting you to another party
on the phone yesterday.
It was Carolyn.
She has ALS.
Rossi, I'm--
what do you need?
It's not what I need, Emily.
It's what she's
asking me to do.
The disease is acting quickly.
Carolyn is already suffering,
and she doesn't want
to go out that way.
She wants to die
on her own terms.
And when this case is over
and we get back...
She asked if I would
help her do it.
What are you gonna do?
I don't have a choice.
Oh, God.
Is everything Ok, ma'am?
Can you help me, please?
I got a flat just up the road
and my son Evan
is waiting on me.
Sure. Hop in.
I'll give you a lift.
Thanks.
That was Dr. Carroll.
Preliminary test results
show the unsub has cancer
of the blood. He's dying.
All right, wait a minute.
Witnesses said Jake Shepherd,
the first victim,
was out on the lake
for a baptism, right?
He was with
his congregation.
Well, those water burials
can be seen
as a form of baptism, too.
Especially dealing with an
unsub who has a God complex.
What if there's a religious
or spiritual motivation
to why the unsub is doing this?
Speak and be heard.
Garcia, I need you to pull a
list of patients in the area
with any form
of blood cancer.
I will make HIPAA
my bitch, sir.
I also need information
on Jake Shepherd.
Religious ties, spiritual
background, anything.
Oh, all that information
will make for a fast search.
Give me a mo...spiritual,
something heaven sent,
other than my angelic self.
Bam.
Whoa.
Jake Shepherd joined the church
after a near-death experience
changed his life.
What happened to him?
He was in an ATV accident,
he coded for 4 minutes,
he was life-flighted to L.A.
where they managed to revive him,
but clinically he did die.
Death and resuscitation.
That sounds a little
too similar to our unsub's
M.O. to be a coincidence.
All right, Garcia, dig deeper.
Jake Shepherd's death wasn't random.
It's on like Obi-Wan.
Garcia out.
So a terminally ill unsub
targets a man
who came back from the dead
and then starts killing repeatedly.
I mean, am I crazy,
or is this about a guy
trying to come to terms
with his own death?
Finding out you're gonna die isn't
enough to make somebody a psychopath.
It does, however, explain why he
stopped strangling his victims.
How do you find out
about death?
You ask someone
who died.
Is he bringing these victims
back so he can talk to them?
Evan. Are you Evan?
Are you Evan?
Is--is your name Evan?
Is your mom Samantha?
Yeah, that's me.
What's going on?
You have to come quickly.
There's been an accident.
- Your mom's been hurt.
- What happened? Where is she?
Come with me.
Hello?
Who's there?
Chase...Chase...Chase...
Aah!
Chase!
Aah! Aah!
Aah...Aah...Aah!
Come on.
Did you see it?
In the darkness,
the light.
Did you see?
Mom?
Don't look at him.
Look at me.
What did you see?
Jeepers, the more I dig,
the more peculiar it gets.
Ok, the first victim,
Jake Shepherd,
had an interesting life,
and I'm using interesting
in place of the phrase,
"He was a big hoodlum."
He had a history of truancy,
petty theft, domestic disturbances,
all of which landed him
in the juvenile hall
for some stints during high school,
as you can imagine.
Was there trouble
at home?
Not at all.
Jake just fell in
with the wrong crowd.
What kind of crowd?
The drug and sexy
parties kind.
But all of that changed
after his accident
6 months ago.
After he...Died.
Oh...
He didn't just die.
He was saved.
Jake Shepherd saw the light,
like literally.
He spoke of a gentle light
and a silhouetted figure bathed
in warmth who welcomed him
but told him
it wasn't his time.
He woke up a changed man.
He believed.
If this unsub
is so obsessed with death,
then Jake Shepherd was the
perfect person to talk to.
He'd been there
and back again.
But come on, guys.
Gentle lights, shadowy figures?
Those are the lights
in the emergency room
and the doctors hovering
over the patients. We all know that.
No one actually sees
the afterlife.
I did.
Before Tobias Hankel
resuscitated me,
I had that exact experience.
And I wasn't in
an emergency room.
I was in a shed.
Reid, you never
told me that.
I'm a man of science. I didn't
know how to deal with it.
There's no quantifiable
proof that God exists,
and yet, in that moment
I was faced with something
that I couldn't explain.
I still can't.
What if this unsub has had
a similar experience
and this is his way
of looking for answers?
If that's the case,
why kill Jake Shepherd?
Why not just talk to him?
He wanted to see if he had
the same experience as before.
Once isn't enough?
Not if Jake didn't see the
same thing the unsub did.
He wants to know
if the experience can change.
I can relate to that.
But...Reid felt a warmth
and saw a light.
When I coded
in the ambulance,
all I felt was cold
and darkness.
And I would like to think
that there's a different
future waiting for me.
You actually died?
All right, but resuscitation
is hit or miss.
He can't guarantee that he can
actually bring anyone back,
let alone that anyone
will remember what happened
in their moment
so-called death.
Reid, what's the best way
to make sure
his victims
had an experience?
Keep them dead longer.
I think your mom needs a break.
Let's see how you do.
Aah!
All right, thanks.
An SUV's just been found
abandoned near Ridge Canyon Lake.
The car belongs
to a Samantha Braun.
Park log shows that she was
there with her son Evan.
Let's go.
He's abducted two at once.
He needs a spot on the lake
where he can control them.
Somewhere isolated that gives
him the time he needs
for his resuscitation
ritual.
How would he keep them
dead longer, Reid?
There's a saying in
the medical community
that you're not dead
until you're warm and dead.
Colder water temperatures
could lead to hypothermia,
which would offer the best chance
for successful reanimation.
Conferencing Garcia.
Give it to me, baby.
Garcia, our unsub's
got two more victims
and he's most likely taking them to
the coldest part of Ridge Canyon Lake.
We need to intercept him.
What have you got?
Ok, checking
water temperatures.
Now we have several cold spots.
What's with the pinging,
Penelope?
The colder spots just matched the
most recent victims' diatom levels.
The unsub's been getting
colder and colder the whole time.
Cross-reference water
temperatures with your list
of prior deaths in the area.
This lake means something
to him other than cold water.
If he died once before,
there should be a report
about it or another trauma
that keeps him rooted here.
We both thought that he could be
a first responder
or knows the area well,
so cross with your list
of local law enforcement
and park officials.
Oh, God.
Daniel Whitaker was murdered
15 years ago. He was a park attendant.
His dock was in the coldest
part of Ridge Canyon Lake.
Who killed him, Garcia?
His son, Chase.
Daniel physically
assaulted his son
and then buried him alive
when he was 16.
There was no mom in the picture.
Chase got off light.
He got out at 18.
Garcia, check
his medical history.
Um...
Oh. Oh, Chase was diagnosed
with lymphoma when he was 10.
It went into remission when he
was 12, but a few months ago
he was diagnosed with stage 4 and
he's been given 3 months to live.
The idea of having
to face death again
must be what sent him
over the edge.
The guy's been haunted
his whole life by whatever
he experienced that night.
Send us
the address, Garcia.
Uhh!
Come and get me,
you son of a bitch!
Help!
On the dock!
I need a medic!
Help!
Ohh! Uhh!
Let go of me!
Chase Whitaker! FBI!
Stay back.
- Let him go.
- I can't.
You hurt him, you won't
be alive long enough
to know
what he has to say.
I need answers.
There are no answers,
Chase.
Nobody gets to know
what happens when we die.
That's why
people have faith.
Faith in what? My life has been
one nightmare after another.
What happened to you
as a boy wasn't fair.
But neither is this.
Let him go.
Chase...
Chase...Chase...Chase...
Aah!
Hello, Dad.
It's not your time, Chase.
Aah!
You're under arrest.
No.
Mom?
"The timing of death,
like the ending of a story,
gives a changed meaning
to what preceded it."
Mary Catherine Bateson.
Mm.
You look like hell.
You want to talk about it?
Not really.
You can't save everyone,
David.
You know that.
I lost you once.
I don't want
to lose you again.
You have to let me go.
I can't.
Life is worth fighting for.
Fight how?
Fighting for what?
For what?
Look at me.
Pretty soon I'm not even gonna
be able to walk.
I want to go out
as I am,
as I've lived, not who I'm going
to become.
I can't help you.
What you're asking,
I can't.
I know.
I knew
you never could.
You spout all that
profiling talk,
but, really, the best way to
get to know someone
is to marry them.
You are the best man
I've ever known.
That's why I wanted you
to be with me tonight.
What have you done?
Ohh. Oh, shh.
Just come sit.
It won't be long now.
No. Don't.
They won't get here
in time. Please.
I have to try.
No, don't!
Don't.
Don't let me die
in a hospital.
David...
Please.
It's fast. It's fast.
I'm already tired.
Do you th--
do you think
he'll be there?
I know he will.
Oh.
== sync, corrected by elderman ==
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org